doc/md: gorm domain types (#2967)
ariga/atlas: doc/md/guides/orms/gorm/domain-types.mdx

---
title: Using Domain Types in GORM
id: domain-types
slug: domain-types
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

PostgreSQL [domain types](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/domains.html) are user-defined data types that extend
existing ones, allowing you to add constraints that restrict the values they can hold. Setting a field type
as a domain type enables you to enforce data integrity and validation rules at the database level.

This guide explains how to define a schema field type as a domain type in your GORM schema and configure the schema migration
to manage both the domains and the GORM schema as a single migration unit using Atlas.

:::info [Atlas Pro Feature](/features#pro-plan)
Atlas support for [Domain Types](/atlas-schema/hcl#domain) is available exclusively to Pro users.
To use this feature, run:
```
atlas login
```
:::

## Getting started with Atlas and GORM
Before we continue to domain types, ensure you have installed the [Atlas GORM Provider](https://github.com/ariga/atlas-provider-gorm)
on your GORM project.

To set up, follow along the [getting started guide](/guides/orms/gorm) for GORM and Atlas.

## Composite Schema

> The `models` package is mostly used for defining GORM types (objects) and logic. Domain types,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GORM package is mostly used for defining tables (our Go types) and interacting with the database. Domain types,
```
